Update USAGE.md to enhance command documentation (#4855)
cabaletta/baritone: USAGE.md

# Prefix

Baritone's chat control prefix is `#` by default. Some clients add alternative aliases (for example, Impact also allows `.b` as a prefix).

> Baritone commands can also by default be typed in the chatbox. However if you make a typo, like typing "gola 10000 10000" instead of "goal" it goes into public chat, which is bad, so using `#` is suggested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Baritone commands can be typed in the chatbox by default. However if you make a typo, like typing "gola 10000 10000" instead of "goal" it goes into public chat, which is bad, so using `#` is suggested.
```
Reorder.

> To disable direct chat control (with no prefix), turn off the `chatControl` setting. To disable chat control with the `#` prefix, turn off the `prefixControl` setting. In Impact, `.b` cannot be disabled. Be careful that you don't leave yourself with all control methods disabled (if you do, reset your settings by deleting the file `minecraft/baritone/settings.txt` and relaunching).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable direct chat control (with no prefix), turn off the `chatControl` setting. To disable chat control with the `#` prefix, turn off the `prefixControl` setting. Be careful that you don't leave yourself with all control methods disabled (if you do, open the settings file in `<Minecraft directory>/minecraft/baritone/settings.txt`, change the settings back, and relaunch the game).
```
Impact is dead.
Also people don't need to delete their whole settings file.

# Getting Help

Try `help` - it has clickable commands and tab completion! Different help sections are available:

- `help` - Show all commands with pagination
- `help <command>` - Show detailed help for a specific command (e.g., `help sel`)

Watch this [showcase video](https://youtu.be/CZkLXWo4Fg4)!

# Settings

> To toggle a boolean setting, just say its name in chat (for example saying `allowBreak` toggles whether Baritone will consider breaking blocks). For a numeric setting, say its name then the new value (like `primaryTimeoutMS 250`). It's case insensitive. To reset a setting to its default value, say `acceptableThrowawayItems reset`. To reset all settings, say `#reset all`. To see all settings that have been modified from their default values, say `modified`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To toggle a boolean setting, just say its name in chat (for example saying `allowBreak` toggles whether Baritone will consider breaking blocks). For a numeric setting, say its name then the new value (like `primaryTimeoutMS 250`). It's case insensitive. To reset a setting to its default value, say `acceptableThrowawayItems reset`. To reset all settings, say `reset all`. To see all settings that have been modified from their default values, say `modified`.
```
Stray `#`.

# Core Commands

> **All** commands may need a prefix before them (# by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands may have a prefix before them (# by default).
```
You imply that commands need a prefix. They don't need one.

- `sel undo` or `sel u` - Undo last selection action
- `sel set <block>` or `sel fill <block>` - Fill selection with blocks
- `sel cleararea` or `sel ca` - Clear area (set to air)
- `sel walls <block>` - Fill walls of selection
- `sel shell <block>` - Fill walls, floor, and ceiling
- `sel replace <from_blocks...> <to_block>` - Replace specific blocks
- `sel sphere <block>` - Fill with sphere shape
- `sel hsphere <block>` - Fill with hollow sphere
- `sel cylinder <block> [axis]` - Fill with cylinder (default Y axis)
- `sel hcylinder <block> [axis]` - Fill with hollow cylinder
- `sel copy [position]` - Copy selection to clipboard
- `sel paste [position]` - Paste from clipboard
- `sel expand <target> <direction> <blocks>` - Expand selection
- `sel contract <target> <direction> <blocks>` - Contract selection
- `sel shift <target> <direction> <blocks>` - Shift selection

## Elytra Flying
For automated nether travel using elytra and fireworks:
- `elytra` - Fly to current goal using elytra (nether only)
- `elytra reset` - Reset elytra state but keep same goal
- `elytra repack` - Queue chunks for repacking  
- `elytra supported` - Check if your system supports elytra features

> **Important:** Elytra requires accepting terms and configuring seed settings. See detailed help with `#help elytra`.

Reviewer: Putting this at the beginning of the header would be nice so it isn't skipped over by people.

- `elytraFireworkSpeed` - Speed multiplier with fireworks
- `elytraPredictTerrain` - Use seed for terrain prediction
- `elytraNetherSeed` - World seed for terrain prediction
- `elytraConserveFireworks` - Use fireworks more conservatively
- `elytraTermsAccepted` - Accept elytra usage terms (required for elytra commands)

# Troubleshooting / Common Issues

## Why doesn't Baritone respond to any of my chat commands?
This could be several things:

1. **Check Installation**: Make sure Baritone is installed. It should create a `baritone` folder in your Minecraft directory.

2. **Check Settings File**: Some clients disable direct chat control by default. This is a **saved setting** that persists across different clients. Check `minecraft/baritone/settings.txt` for lines containing `chatControl false` or `prefixControl false` and delete those lines, then restart your client.

3. **Use Prefix**: Try using the `#` prefix (e.g., `#help`) if direct chat control is disabled.

## Common Command Issues

**Q: Why can I do certain commands in some clients but not others?**  
A: Some clients add custom commands beyond Baritone's built-in commands.

## Performance Issues

> **Q: Baritone is running slowly or causing lag**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Q: Why is Baritone lagging my game?**  
```

A: Try these settings:
- Disable `renderCachedChunks` if enabled
- Disable `avoidance` (it impacts performance significantly)
- If mining frequently, check that `mineScanUpdateInterval` isn't set too low - if lower than the duration of a single scan, it can freeze the game

## Building & Mining Issues

> **Q: Builder is not placing blocks correctly**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Q: Why is Baritone not placing blocks correctly?**  
```

A: Check these settings:
- Ensure `allowPlace` is enabled
- Verify you have the correct blocks in inventory
- Check `buildSkipBlocks` and `buildIgnoreBlocks` settings
- Try `buildInLayers` for complex builds

> **Q: Mining is not working efficiently**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Q: Why is Baritone not working efficiently when mining?**  
```

A: Consider these settings:
- Adjust `mineScanDroppedItems` to collect drops
- Set appropriate `blocksToAvoidBreaking` list

## Elytra Issues

> **Q: Elytra commands not working**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Q: Why are Baritone's elytra commands not working?**  
```

A: Elytra requires specific setup:
- Must be in the Nether dimension
- Set `elytraTermsAccepted` to true
- Configure `elytraNetherSeed` if using terrain prediction
- Check `elytra supported` to verify system compatibility

> **Q: Elytra flying is unreliable**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Q: Why is elytra flying unreliable?**  
```

A: Try these settings:
- Set `elytraPredictTerrain` to false if you don't know the seed
- Increase `elytraMinFireworksBeforeLanding` for safety
- Enable `elytraAllowEmergencyLand` to prevent crashes

## General Tips

1. **Use `#help <command>`** for detailed information about specific commands
2. **Check `#modified`** to see what settings you've changed from defaults  
3. **Use `#reset all`** to restore all settings to defaults if things go wrong
4. **Enable `chatDebug`** temporarily to see what Baritone is doing
5. **Use `#proc`** to understand what process is currently running

> 6. **Try `#cancel` first and `#forcecancel` if that didn't work** when Baritone seems stuck

Reviewer: You left my comment as resolved last time but `#` is still not removed for the "General Tips" section.

## Getting More Help

> - Use `#version` to check your Baritone version when reporting issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `version` to check your Baritone version when reporting issues
```

- Check the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/cabaletta/baritone) for documentation and issue reports

> - Join the community Discord for real-time help and discussion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Join the community [Discord](https://discord.gg/s6fRBAUpmr) for real-time help and discussion
```

# Prefix

Baritone's chat control prefix is `#` by default. Some clients add alternative aliases (for example, Impact also allows `.b` as a prefix).

Baritone commands can also by default be typed in the chatbox. However if you make a typo, like typing "gola 10000 10000" instead of "goal" it goes into public chat, which is bad, so using `#` is suggested.

To disable direct chat control (with no prefix), turn off the `chatControl` setting. To disable chat control with the `#` prefix, turn off the `prefixControl` setting. In Impact, `.b` cannot be disabled. Be careful that you don't leave yourself with all control methods disabled (if you do, reset your settings by deleting the file `minecraft/baritone/settings.txt` and relaunching).

# Getting Help

> Try `#help` - it has clickable commands and tab completion! Different help sections are available:

Reviewer: Remove the prefix before `#help` and put it below the warning:
> **All** commands may need a prefix before them (# by default).

- `#help` - Show all commands with pagination
- `#help <command>` - Show detailed help for a specific command (e.g., `#help sel`)
- `#help sel` - WorldEdit-like selection commands
- `#help wp` - Waypoint management

> - `#help elytra` - Elytra flying commands

Reviewer: Specific examples of \#help \<command> become redundant since you already have a description with an example of \#help \<command> above.

- `goal clear` - Clear the current goal
- `goto x y z` or `goto x z` or `goto y` - Go to coordinates immediately (combines goal + path)
- `goto <block_type>` - Go to the nearest block of that type (e.g., `goto diamond_ore`, `goto portal`)
- `thisway <distance>` - Set goal in the direction you're facing, then `path` to start
- `path` - Start pathfinding to the current goal
- `cancel` or `stop` - Stop all current processes
- `forcecancel` - Force stop everything (more aggressive)
- `pause` - Pause the current process
- `resume` - Resume a paused process
- `come` - Head towards your camera position (useful with freecam)

## Advanced Movement
- `surface` or `top` - Go to the highest accessible block (surface or air pocket)
- `axis` - Go to world axis at configurable height (default y=120)
- `invert` - Invert current goal (go as far away as possible instead of close)
- `tunnel [width] [height] [length]` - Dig a tunnel (default 1x2, or specify dimensions)

## Mining & Building
- `mine <block_types>` - Mine specified blocks (e.g., `mine diamond_ore iron_ore`)
- `mine <quantity> <block_types>` - Mine a specific amount (e.g., `mine 64 diamond_ore`)

> - `blacklist` - Blacklist current target block (prevents mining the same block repeatedly)

Reviewer: Despite what @ZacSharp said, `blacklist` doesn't work with `mine`, only `goto <block>`. This is because it uses `GetToBlockProcess` while `mine` uses `MineProcess`. Sorry about how long this is taking. ~I'm pretty sure leijurv is in college so it's reasonable to assume that he doesn't have much time to review and merge.~ (definitely not in college) The last time he committed his own Java code was 2 years ago. It's just a little annoying he didn't give a more active member permissions to merge but it is what it is.

> - `blacklist` - While using `goto <block>`, blacklist the closest target block to skip unreachable instances

Reviewer: Put this under Advanced Movement instead since it's not correlated with Mining & Building.

- `pickup` - Pick up all nearby items
- `pickup <items...>` - Pick up specific items only (e.g., `pickup diamond emerald`)

## World Exploration
- `explore [x] [z]` - Explore world from origin point (default: current position)
- `explorefilter <json_file> [invert]` - Apply exploration filter from JSON file
- `find <block_type>` - Search cache for block locations
- `click` - Click to set destinations (left/right click, drag for selections)

## Waypoints
Full waypoint system for saving and navigating to locations:
- `wp` or `waypoints` - List all waypoints
- `wp save <tag> <name>` - Save current location as waypoint
- `wp goal <tag> <name>` - Set goal to waypoint
- `wp goto <tag> <name>` - Go to waypoint immediately
- `wp list [tag]` - List waypoints (optionally filtered by tag)
- `wp delete <tag> <name>` - Delete a waypoint
- `sethome` - Quick save home waypoint
- `home` - Quick go to home waypoint

Common tags: `home` (bed locations), `death` (death locations), `user` (manual waypoints)

## Information & Debugging
- `version` - Show Baritone version
- `proc` - Show information about current process
- `eta` - Show estimated time to goal

> - `help [command]` - Show help (general or for specific command)

Reviewer: You already mentioned `help` above.

> - `help [command]` - Show help (general or for specific command)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You already mentioned `help` above.

## Core Behavior Settings
- `allowBreak` - Allow breaking blocks (default: true)
- `allowBreakAnyway` - Break blocks even if they're in the avoid list (default: false)
- `allowSprint` - Allow sprinting (default: true)
- `allowPlace` - Allow placing blocks (default: true)
- `allowInventory` - Allow moving items in inventory (default: false)
- `allowParkour` - Allow parkour movements (default: true)
- `allowParkourPlace` - Allow placing blocks for parkour (default: true)
- `allowDiagonalAscend` - Allow diagonal ascending movements (default: false)
- `allowDiagonalDescend` - Allow diagonal descending movements (default: false)

## Pathing & Performance
- `primaryTimeoutMS` - Max time for pathfinding (default: 500ms)
- `planAheadTimeoutMS` - Max time for planning ahead (default: 4000ms)
- `blockPlacementPenalty` - Cost penalty for placing blocks (default: 20.0)
- `blockBreakAdditionalPenalty` - Additional cost for breaking blocks (default: 2.0)

## Visual & Cache Settings  
- `renderCachedChunks` - Render cached chunks (performance intensive)
- `cachedChunksOpacity` - Opacity of rendered cached chunks

> - `chunkCaching` - Enable chunk caching for long-distance pathing (default: true)

Reviewer: You seem to have listed the default values for some of these but left it out for most others. For the sake of consistency and the fact that defaults are a little redundant, removing them would be good.

- `elytraAutoJump` - Automatically jump to take off (default: false)  
- `elytraFireworkSpeed` - Speed multiplier with fireworks (default: 1.0)
- `elytraPredictTerrain` - Use seed for terrain prediction (default: false)
- `elytraNetherSeed` - World seed for terrain prediction
- `elytraConserveFireworks` - Use fireworks more conservatively (default: false)
- `elytraTermsAccepted` - Accept elytra usage terms (required for elytra commands)

# Troubleshooting / Common Issues

## Why doesn't Baritone respond to any of my chat commands?
This could be several things:

1. **Check Installation**: Make sure Baritone is installed. It should create a `baritone` folder in your Minecraft directory.

2. **Check Settings File**: Some clients disable direct chat control by default. This is a **saved setting** that persists across different clients. Check `minecraft/baritone/settings.txt` for lines containing `chatControl false` or `prefixControl false` and delete those lines, then restart your client.

3. **Use Prefix**: Try using the `#` prefix (e.g., `#help`) if direct chat control is disabled.

## Common Command Issues

**Q: Why can I do certain commands in some clients but not others?**  

> A: Some clients add custom commands beyond Baritone's built-in commands. The Baritone equivalent is typically `#goto x z` for navigation commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: Some clients add custom commands beyond Baritone's built-in commands.
```

I know this was taken from the old readme, but the clients it was referencing are now old and unmaintained. It also doesn't make complete sense without the examples from those clients.

- Check `buildSkipBlocks` and `buildIgnoreBlocks` settings
- Try `buildInLayers` for complex builds

**Q: Mining is not working efficiently**  
A: Consider these settings:
- Adjust `mineScanDroppedItems` to collect drops
- Set appropriate `blocksToAvoidBreaking` list

## Elytra Issues

**Q: Elytra commands not working**  
A: Elytra requires specific setup:
- Must be in the Nether dimension
- Set `elytraTermsAccepted` to true
- Configure `elytraNetherSeed` if using terrain prediction
- Check `elytra supported` to verify system compatibility

**Q: Elytra flying is unreliable**  
A: Try these settings:
- Set `elytraPredictTerrain` to false if you don't know the seed
- Increase `elytraMinFireworksBeforeLanding` for safety
- Enable `elytraAllowEmergencyLand` to prevent crashes

## General Tips

1. **Use `#help <command>`** for detailed information about specific commands
2. **Check `#modified`** to see what settings you've changed from defaults  
3. **Use `#reset all`** to restore all settings to defaults if things go wrong
4. **Enable `chatDebug`** temporarily to see what Baritone is doing
5. **Use `#proc`** to understand what process is currently running

> 6. **Try `#cancel` first and `#forcecancel` if that didn't work** when Baritone seems stuck

Reviewer: Remove `#` for the "General Tips" section.

To disable direct chat control (with no prefix), turn off the `chatControl` setting. To disable chat control with the `#` prefix, turn off the `prefixControl` setting. In Impact, `.b` cannot be disabled. Be careful that you don't leave yourself with all control methods disabled (if you do, reset your settings by deleting the file `minecraft/baritone/settings.txt` and relaunching).

# Getting Help

> Try `#help` - it's vastly improved with clickable commands and tab completion! Different help sections are available:

Reviewer 2: Maybe just "it has clickable commands and tab completion"? I doubt anyone who needs this information knows what the old help command did.

- `#help` - Show all commands with pagination
- `#help <command>` - Show detailed help for a specific command (e.g., `#help sel`)
- `#help sel` - WorldEdit-like selection commands
- `#help wp` - Waypoint management
- `#help elytra` - Elytra flying commands

Watch this [showcase video](https://youtu.be/CZkLXWo4Fg4)!

# Settings

> To toggle a boolean setting, just say its name in chat (for example saying `allowBreak` toggles whether Baritone will consider breaking blocks). For a numeric setting, say its name then the new value (like `primaryTimeoutMS 250`). It's case insensitive. To reset a setting to its default value, say `acceptableThrowawayItems reset`. To reset all settings, say `reset`. To see all settings that have been modified from their default values, say `modified`.

Reviewer 2: `#reset` tells you to use `#reset all`. I assume you intentionally send users to the "confirmation screen"?

- `path` - Start pathfinding to the current goal
- `cancel` or `stop` - Stop all current processes
- `forcecancel` - Force stop everything (more aggressive)
- `pause` - Pause the current process
- `resume` - Resume a paused process
- `come` - Head towards your camera position (useful with freecam)

## Advanced Movement
- `surface` or `top` - Go to the highest accessible block (surface or air pocket)
- `axis` - Go to world axis at configurable height (default y=120)
- `invert` - Invert current goal (go as far away as possible instead of close)
- `tunnel [width] [height] [length]` - Dig a tunnel (default 1x2, or specify dimensions)

## Mining & Building
- `mine <block_types>` - Mine specified blocks (e.g., `mine diamond_ore iron_ore`)
- `mine <quantity> <block_types>` - Mine a specific amount (e.g., `mine 64 diamond_ore`)
- `build <schematic>` - Build a schematic from the schematics folder
- `build <schematic> <x> <y> <z>` - Build at specific coordinates (can use relative: `~ ~1 ~-5`)
- `litematica [index]` - Build the currently loaded litematica schematic
- `farm [range] [waypoint]` - Automatically farm crops within range

> ## Selection & WorldEdit-like Commands (NEW!)

Reviewer 2: They are no longer new (5+ years old).

- `find <block_type>` - Search cache for block locations
- `click` - Click to set destinations (left/right click, drag for selections)

## Waypoints
Full waypoint system for saving and navigating to locations:
- `wp` or `waypoints` - List all waypoints
- `wp save <tag> <name>` - Save current location as waypoint
- `wp goal <tag> <name>` - Set goal to waypoint
- `wp goto <tag> <name>` - Go to waypoint immediately
- `wp list [tag]` - List waypoints (optionally filtered by tag)
- `wp delete <tag> <name>` - Delete a waypoint
- `sethome` - Quick save home waypoint
- `home` - Quick go to home waypoint

Common tags: `home` (bed locations), `death` (death locations), `user` (manual waypoints)

## Information & Debugging
- `version` - Show Baritone version
- `proc` - Show information about current process
- `eta` - Show estimated time to goal
- `help [command]` - Show help (general or for specific command)

## System Commands
- `repack` - Re-cache surrounding chunks
- `reloadall` - Reload world cache from disk
- `saveall` - Save world cache to disk
- `render` - Fix glitched chunk rendering
- `gc` - Call garbage collection

> - `blacklist` - Blacklist current target block

Reviewer 2: `#blacklist` belongs to `#mine`, not "System Commands"

# Settings

All the settings and documentation are available in the [Settings.java file](https://github.com/cabaletta/baritone/blob/master/src/api/java/baritone/api/Settings.java) and [online documentation](https://baritone.leijurv.com/baritone/api/Settings.html#field.detail).

There are over 100 settings available. Here are the most important ones for general usage:

## Core Behavior Settings
- `allowBreak` - Allow breaking blocks (default: true)
- `allowBreakAnyway` - Break blocks even if they're in the avoid list (default: false)
- `allowSprint` - Allow sprinting (default: true)
- `allowPlace` - Allow placing blocks (default: true)
- `allowInventory` - Allow moving items in inventory (default: false)
- `allowParkour` - Allow parkour movements (default: true)
- `allowParkourPlace` - Allow placing blocks for parkour (default: true)
- `allowDiagonalAscend` - Allow diagonal ascending movements (default: false)
- `allowDiagonalDescend` - Allow diagonal descending movements (default: false)

## Pathing & Performance

> - `primaryTimeoutMS` - Max time for pathfinding (default: 500ms)

Reviewer 2: Why no `planAheadTimeoutMS` (or whatever it was called) here?

- `prefixControl` - Enable prefix-based chat control (default: true)

## Elytra Settings
- `elytraAutoJump` - Automatically jump to take off (default: false)  
- `elytraFireworkSpeed` - Speed multiplier with fireworks (default: 1.0)
- `elytraPredictTerrain` - Use seed for terrain prediction (default: false)
- `elytraNetherSeed` - World seed for terrain prediction
- `elytraConserveFireworks` - Use fireworks more conservatively (default: false)
- `elytraTermsAccepted` - Accept elytra usage terms (required for elytra commands)

# Process Management

Baritone uses a process system where only one main process can be active at a time. Available processes include:

- **Builder Process** - Building schematics and structures
- **Mine Process** - Mining specific blocks or quantities  
- **Farm Process** - Automatic farming operations
- **Follow Process** - Following players, entities, or picking up items
- **Explore Process** - World exploration and chunk discovery
- **Elytra Process** - Automated elytra flying in the Nether
- **Custom Goal Process** - Manual goal setting and pathfinding
- **Get To Block Process** - Pathfinding to specific block types

> Use `proc` to see which process is currently active and get information about its state.

Reviewer 2: This shouldn't be relevant for users.

# Troubleshooting / Common Issues

## Why doesn't Baritone respond to any of my chat commands?
This could be several things:

1. **Check Installation**: Make sure Baritone is installed. It should create a `baritone` folder in your Minecraft directory.

2. **Check Prefix Settings**: Verify you're using the correct prefix:
   - Default prefix is `#` (e.g., `#help`)

>    - Some clients like Impact use `.b` as an alias

Reviewer 2: Impact is ancient. Better just write something generic like "some clients add an alternative alias" or "some clients have alternative commands to control Baritone" or similar.

>    - Check if direct chat control is enabled with `#chatControl` and `#prefixControl`

Reviewer 2: You cannot just tell a user to use prefix control to check whether prefix control is enabled. The correct advice here is to check `$MINECRAFT_HOME/baritone/settings.txt` for a line containing `prefixControl false` (or `chatControl false`) and delete that.

3. **Client-Specific Issues**: Some clients like Impact disable direct chat control by default. This is a **saved setting** that persists across different clients. If `chatControl` was turned off in Impact, it will remain off in other clients too.
   - Solution: Use the `#` prefix or edit `baritone/settings.txt` in your Minecraft folder
   - Remove the line `chatControl false` and restart your client

## Common Command Issues

**Q: Why can I do `.goto x z` in Impact but not elsewhere?**  
A: That's a custom command added by Impact, not a Baritone command. Use `#goto x z` instead.

**Q: Why can I do `-path to x z` in KAMI but not elsewhere?**  
A: That's a KAMI-specific command. The Baritone equivalent is `#goto x z`.

## Performance Issues

**Q: Baritone is running slowly or causing lag**  
A: Try these settings:
- Disable `renderCachedChunks` if enabled
- Increase `primaryTimeoutMS` to give more time for pathfinding
- Disable `avoidance` (it impacts performance significantly)

> - Reduce `followRadius` if using follow commands

Reviewer 2: Increasing the primary timeout either has no effect or makes Baritone spend more CPU time before finishing a path.

Decreasing `followRadius` shouldn't be a problem unless it was set really high. If that's wrong, let me know and I'll fix it.

What can indeed cause severe lag is the world scanner when scabbubg either for lots of blocks or in short intervals. If `mineScanUpdateInterval` is lower than the duration of a single scan this will outright freeze the game.

**Q: Pathfinding is taking too long**  
A: Adjust timeout settings:
- Increase `primaryTimeoutMS` (default: 500ms)

> - Increase `failureTimeoutMS` (default: 2000ms)

Reviewer 2: How the hell is that supposed to speed up pathfinding?

- Check `buildSkipBlocks` and `buildIgnoreBlocks` settings
- Try `buildInLayers` for complex builds

**Q: Mining is not working efficiently**  
A: Consider these settings:
- Adjust `mineScanDroppedItems` to collect drops
- Set appropriate `blocksToAvoidBreaking` list

## Elytra Issues

**Q: Elytra commands not working**  
A: Elytra requires specific setup:
- Must be in the Nether dimension
- Set `elytraTermsAccepted` to true
- Configure `elytraNetherSeed` if using terrain prediction
- Check `elytra supported` to verify system compatibility

**Q: Elytra flying is unreliable**  
A: Try these settings:
- Set `elytraPredictTerrain` to false if you don't know the seed
- Increase `elytraMinFireworksBeforeLanding` for safety
- Enable `elytraAllowEmergencyLand` to prevent crashes

## General Tips

1. **Use `#help <command>`** for detailed information about specific commands
2. **Check `#modified`** to see what settings you've changed from defaults  
3. **Use `#reset`** to restore all settings to defaults if things go wrong
4. **Enable `chatDebug`** temporarily to see what Baritone is doing
5. **Use `#proc`** to understand what process is currently running

> 6. **Try `#forcecancel`** if Baritone seems stuck

Reviewer 2: Better tell users to try `#cancel` first and `#forcecancel` if that didn't work.

- `wp goto <tag> <name>` - Go to waypoint immediately
- `wp list [tag]` - List waypoints (optionally filtered by tag)
- `wp delete <tag> <name>` - Delete a waypoint
- `sethome` - Quick save home waypoint
- `home` - Quick go to home waypoint

Common tags: `home` (bed locations), `death` (death locations), `user` (manual waypoints)

## Information & Debugging
- `version` - Show Baritone version
- `proc` - Show information about current process
- `eta` - Show estimated time to goal
- `help [command]` - Show help (general or for specific command)

## System Commands
- `repack` - Re-cache surrounding chunks
- `reloadall` - Reload world cache from disk
- `saveall` - Save world cache to disk
- `render` - Fix glitched chunk rendering
- `gc` - Call garbage collection
- `blacklist` - Blacklist current target block

# Settings

All the settings and documentation are available in the [Settings.java file](https://github.com/cabaletta/baritone/blob/master/src/api/java/baritone/api/Settings.java) and [online documentation](https://baritone.leijurv.com/baritone/api/Settings.html#field.detail).

There are over 100 settings available. Here are the most important ones for general usage:

> ## Core Behavior Settings

Reviewer: Maybe add `allowBreakAnyway`.

- `allowBreak` - Allow breaking blocks (default: true)
- `allowSprint` - Allow sprinting (default: true)
- `allowPlace` - Allow placing blocks (default: true)
- `allowInventory` - Allow moving items in inventory (default: false)
- `allowParkour` - Allow parkour movements (default: true)
- `allowParkourPlace` - Allow placing blocks for parkour (default: true)
- `allowDiagonalAscend` - Allow diagonal ascending movements (default: false)
- `allowDiagonalDescend` - Allow diagonal descending movements (default: false)

## Pathing & Performance
- `primaryTimeoutMS` - Max time for pathfinding (default: 500ms)

> - `costHeuristic` - A* heuristic value (default: 3.563)

Reviewer: I don't really know if I would consider `costHeuristic` "general use". If someone changes it without knowing what they're doing, it wouldn't be too good for them. Besides, the default value is reasonable for most users.
https://github.com/cabaletta/baritone/blob/c1aa2012b99172c033c2a72bf66e334e847890c1/src/api/java/baritone/api/Settings.java#L419-L433

- **Get To Block Process** - Pathfinding to specific block types

Use `proc` to see which process is currently active and get information about its state.

# Troubleshooting / Common Issues

## Why doesn't Baritone respond to any of my chat commands?
This could be several things:

1. **Check Installation**: Make sure Baritone is installed. It should create a `baritone` folder in your Minecraft directory.

2. **Check Prefix Settings**: Verify you're using the correct prefix:
   - Default prefix is `#` (e.g., `#help`)
   - Some clients like Impact use `.b` as an alias
   - Check if direct chat control is enabled with `#chatControl` and `#prefixControl`

3. **Client-Specific Issues**: Some clients like Impact disable direct chat control by default. This is a **saved setting** that persists across different clients. If `chatControl` was turned off in Impact, it will remain off in other clients too.
   - Solution: Use the `#` prefix or edit `baritone/settings.txt` in your Minecraft folder
   - Remove the line `chatControl false` and restart your client

## Common Command Issues

**Q: Why can I do `.goto x z` in Impact but not elsewhere?**  

> A: That's a custom command added by Impact, not a Baritone command. Use `goto x z` instead.

Reviewer: Change to `#goto x z`

**Q: Why can I do `-path to x z` in KAMI but not elsewhere?**  

> A: That's a KAMI-specific command. The Baritone equivalent is `goto x z`.

Reviewer: Change to `#goto x z`

## Performance Issues

**Q: Baritone is running slowly or causing lag**  
A: Try these settings:
- Disable `renderCachedChunks` if enabled
- Increase `primaryTimeoutMS` to give more time for pathfinding
- Disable `avoidance` (it impacts performance significantly)
- Reduce `followRadius` if using follow commands

**Q: Pathfinding is taking too long**  
A: Adjust timeout settings:
- Increase `primaryTimeoutMS` (default: 500ms)
- Increase `failureTimeoutMS` (default: 2000ms)
- Consider using `costHeuristic` > 3.563 for faster but suboptimal paths

## Building & Mining Issues

**Q: Builder is not placing blocks correctly**  
A: Check these settings:
- Ensure `allowPlace` is enabled
- Verify you have the correct blocks in inventory
- Check `buildSkipBlocks` and `buildIgnoreBlocks` settings
- Try `buildInLayers` for complex builds

**Q: Mining is not working efficiently**  
A: Consider these settings:

> - Enable `legitMine` to only mine visible ores

Reviewer: This would make it less efficient.

- Adjust `mineScanDroppedItems` to collect drops

> - Use `backfill` to fill tunnels behind you

Reviewer: This would also make it less efficient.
